I'd like to introduce to you Adria Brier
she is a certified natural health
professional a certified life coach a
certified energy healing professional
and she has completed the respected
Smith Carter program integrative coach
navigation for patients Adria is an
international let's see I'm sorry I said
that an international integrative cancer
sorry we we redo these notes and now I'm
like redo so let me just jump down to
say one of her focuses of her consulting
is to support our clients and reducing
stress improving relationships and
moving forward with their lives and
health so please welcome Adria thank you
would everybody please make sure their
cell phones are off their candies
unwrapped because it's being recorded
ask your dogs not to bark right
basically randy was trying to say that
I'm an international integrative cancer
consultant and a life coach and I'm
thrilled to be here and see so many
familiar faces again dr. Thomas Seyfried
received his PhD in genetics and
biochemistry from the University of
Illinois Urbana he did his undergraduate
work at the University of New England
formerly st. Francis College and holds a
master's degree in genetics from
Illinois State University we all hear a
lot about genetics now so his background
is stellar he's served with distinction
in the United States Army 1st Cavalry
Division during the Vietnam War thank
you for that he received numerous medals
and commendations including the Bronze
Star Air Medal and Army Commendation
Medal he was a postdoctoral fellow in
the Department of Neurology at the Yale
University School of Medicine there are
14 paragraphs here of his
accomplishments I'm gonna shrink them
he also served as an assistant professor
in Neurology at Yale prior to receiving
full professorship dr. Seyfried was an
associate professor of the department of
biology at Boston College
he's received other awards and honors
from the American oil chemists Society
National Institutes of Health American
Society for neural chemistry and the
ketogenic diet special interest group of
the American epilepsy Society his
research program focuses on gene
environmental interactions related to
complex diseases such as epilepsy autism
brain cancer and neurodegenerative
diseases dr. Siegfried investigates many
of these diseases can I say that five
times fast from the perspective of
genetics like bedell lipid omics and
energy metabolism much of his work also
has direct translational benefit to the
clinic his recent publications appear on
his website in the Boston College
biology so aside from that was
incredible credentials dr. Seyfried is a
trailblazer he's outside of the paradigm
when it comes to cancer I said to him
quite frankly and this group understands
the comment I can't believe he's still
alive
he brings us information that is really
hard to find and I cannot tell you how
excited I am to be able to introduce him
to you thank you for flying across the
country and making this time
[Applause]
thank you very much I'm plugged in okay
great well it's a real pleasure for me
to be here this evening and have the
opportunity to share with you the work
that we've been doing on cancer and how
we plan to manage this disease if I can
get my program going here and over okay
well this is the building our main
campus building at Boston College where
I where I am a professor in biology and
I teach cancer biology and general
biology to the freshmen so I have quite
a bit of student experience in that
regard so what I'm going to do today is
I'm going to give you an overview of the
situation of where we stand with cancer
and how we plan to manage this disease
so I start my lectures with a report
card from data from the American Cancer
Society and they log this information
for us every year so this is the
evidence far as ninth this 70s but right
now we're looking at just the last five
years when we've supposedly made so many
major breakthroughs that you hear about
on the news every seems like every month
so what we have is the year 2013 to 2017
new cases deaths per year deaths per day
the numbers are quite sobering as you
can see the percentage increase we have
over 1,600 people a day dying from
cancer these are not the good numbers
these are the data these are the numbers
that you don't hear about on TV when we
hear about all the great things that are
happening and if you notice the
percentages the deaths per day or but
that's per year is increasing faster
than the number of new cases and if you
want to put this in perspective the
percent of population increase over that
same five year period was about 2.9
so how is this war goin abysmal we're
failing alright don't let if people say
we're making all this progress there's
no progress all right otherwise we
wouldn't have these numbers so now you
have to ask yourself we we what do we
want to do a Cancer Research what what
cancer research right we got pink
ribbons painting airplanes we have
people running for brain cancer swimming
for this jumping for that let's raise
where do you ever ask where the money
goes what are they doing with all that
money billions of dollars in cancer
research what's going on with that we
got a lot of dead people here do you
think what do the hell what so you have
to say the more money we raise for
cancer research the more cancer we get
there seems to be no accountability with
what's going on here it's a tragedy now
the reason for this in my mind comes
from a fundamental misunderstanding of
what the nature of the disease actually
is so conflicting views on the origin of
cancer is in my mind responsible for
this disaster that we call cancer so is
it a nuclear genetic disease as the
dogmatic view will tell us or is it a
mitochondrial metabolic disease the
evidence of which I will show you
because we have mutations in the nucleus
in many cancer cells but not all cancer
cells there are some cancer them no
mutations in the nucleus people don't
talk about that but every tumor cell has
defects in its respiration that little
bean shaped mitochondria that you see
there it's not actually a bean it's a
spaghetti network and when you cut
through the cell you get those little
parts of the spaghetti and that's what
days being things look like they're
actually a tubular net network inside
the cell so these abnormalities in both
of these organelles and there's
abnormalities and some other organelles
but but the majority of people focus on
the nucleus so and this is the dogmatic
view that we have the Orthodox view we
have today cancer is a genetic disease
in this paper by Hanahan and Weinberg
which is one of the more highly cited
papers in the entire cancer field
summarizes all of these particular
hallmarks and
that one of the statements in the paper
cancer carries the oncogenic tumor
suppressor mutations that define cancer
as a genetic disease and as I've said in
many of my youtube videos and lectures
dogmatic view is of dogma is an
irrefutable truth the dogma is what when
you have a religious belief
it's a dogmatic belief and don't think
science is very similar to this you
spend your whole life studying a
particular thing it becomes a dogmatic
view it's very hard to change its
irrefutable truth how do we know this we
know this because I teach these classes
and every book in biology biochemistry
and cell biology and the cancer section
cancer is a genetic disease you go to
the NIH website cancer is a genetic
disease there's no discussion well maybe
it might be sometimes and not all with
them no no it's a genetic it's a it's a
genetic disease so what this dogmatic
view has done it has indoctrinated
several generations of physicians and
scientists into this view that this is
the the way it is so to to educate the
next generation about this we have these
little pictures and this this is what a
bio biology textbook looks like somatic
mutation theory is the is the foundation
upon which the gene theory is based
somatic mutation theory mutations and
genes that inhibit or stimulate cell
division and you can see that the cells
there the division cancer is cell
division out of control
that's just what is cancer these are
cells that divide out of control what's
drive what's making them well we have
defects in oncogenes which makes them
grow faster and they also have defects
in tumor suppressor genes they may know
breaks that they can't stop it if they
wanted so we have we have genes that
make them grow fast and we have other
genes that can't stop them from growing
and this is suppressor genes and
oncogenes and this is all we hear about
and you look at these little pictures
here and tells you then we have another
picture that to kind of familiarize
people with this dogmatic view we say
well we have a normal cell here the
normal cell and has to go through a
series of mutational changes and then it
becomes this malignant mesenchymal
dysmorphic self i think everybody can
see it right here so that's the
so-called tumor cell and
the question is how do you get these two
well it would collect the mutation how
many mutations one two three four I
don't know sometimes one some things -
what about the tumor cells that have no
mutations and yet their cancer cell well
we don't talk about those and then
there's other people who say well we can
get several million mutations and if you
look at the the data from the genomic
projects one mutation piled on the other
if you've got drivers passengers every
kind of a name you can think of for a
kind of tumor mutation and and this is
the way it is and then where we are
today we have what we call precision
medicine you've heard it on the TVs
personalized cancer treatment centers in
both at Cancer Treatment Centers of
America we're gonna use personalized
medicine Dana Farber and my neck of the
woods yeah we're gonna use personalized
therapy pictures and medicine and all
this kind of stuff so what you have is
this this is where it is so this woman
now is looking into the screen and she's
looking at different kinds of over
expressed genes trying to make a
decision how do we is it can we make a
could we give a prognosis or can we
recommend the treatment based on this
now you have to realize where are they
getting this information from they take
a punch biopsy of some part of your body
where this is breast but you could be
taking it from the colon from the liver
or whatever it is and then you take this
and you spread it out you get these
spots now you have to realize I have
here observer effect when you take a
lump and you stick it with a needle so
that you can identify what kind of
mutations and there you already changed
the microenvironment of that lump all
right it's called a flam Ettore on-court
axis so the information she may be
looking at could be completely different
now in that region based on the fact
that she stabbed you right take this
thing out and we're looking at this now
this would be okay if the information on
that screen had any redeeming value to
your health the answer is it doesn't and
the cost is $7,000 to have that woman
stare into that screen to tell you
$7,200 and I read in the Boston in the
Wall Street Journal coming down to plane
that Roche Holdings one of these big
pharmaceutical just bought the company
in Boston for 2.4 million dollars
that supports this kind of stuff and I'm
saying wow they they really don't
understand the nature of cancer do they
so but anyway they think they're the
doing this and and and I'll show you
evidence that argues so when when you
argue against some dogmatic view I don't
care what it is
a religion political affiliation a
scientific view that's different from
the prevailing view it's always I don't
want to look at the data I don't want to
talk about it and I don't want to hear
about it basically this is what what
we're up against when you introduce
something new so let's look at the let's
look at the some of the some just a
brief snapshot of some of the evidence
this is a key experiment published in
the top journals science 1969 I had a
chance to discuss these data with dr.
McDonald there's a frog that has kidney
cancer
it's very lethal kills these frogs it
has you know it's it's division out of
control it's a well described cancer now
mammalians are in phibian you can do
some really nice nifty biology so what
dr. McKinnell did was he took he took
the tumor out of the Frog and then
isolated a cell a tumor cell from the
frogs tumor and then took a fertilized
egg and removed the nucleus of the
fertilized egg and put the nucleus with
the tumor suppressor and the unanchored
genes into the the new cytoplasm that
contained normal mitochondria and they
cloned the frog the frog developed this
tadpole developed from the nucleus of
that kidney tumor right the pad pol is
fine they looked at that tadpole in
every way imaginable with had pol could
be looked at and they didn't find any
dysregulated cell growth that's the
signature feature of what the can't the
issue was though there was something in
that tumor nucleus that prevented this
tadpole from becoming a mature frog so
there was some defect in the nucleus
that blocked development but it didn't
cause cancer hmm interesting so many
years later Rudy anisha's his group at
MIT rudy is probably the premier
developmental biologist on the planet he
looked at all those other data and he
said listen I don't believe any of that
unless I do it alright so he did it and
he did it with mice and he took nucleus
out of a melanoma cell
and he characterized all of the
mutations in the nucleus of the melanoma
and then put it into an embryonic stem
cell and cloned the mouse from the
nucleus of the melanoma cell right so
the presence of major genetic
abnormalities in the embryonic mice
clone from the tumor nucleus Pro
unequivocal genomic evidence that the
mice were cloned from the nucleus
but these mice did not have cancer and
they died they aborted just like the
Frog couldn't develop to a mature frog
these mice couldn't develop beyond a
certain and it depended on the kind of
mutations that were in that nucleus to
determine whether or not the mouse
survived for anything so clearly these
mutations were disrupting development
but they weren't causing cancer
now here's another nice paper by Benny
Kyra Pato and his group at Baylor
College of Medicine and he did he did he
left the nucleus in place but he changed
the mitochondria so what he did is he
took a highly aggressive metastatic
breast cancer and removed that
mitochondria that were in the cytoplasm
as these are hard experiments these are
much more difficult than the nuclear
transfer experiments but he put the
mitochondria from a normal cell and
surrounding the nucleus now of the tumor
cell and these tumor cells regained
their growth control and didn't form
cancer didn't spread they didn't do
anything so it was clear that the
mitochondria were calling the shots not
the nucleus okay
so I wrote a paper in fact it was
chapter 13 in my book and I upgraded it
to this paper that was published to open
Accent frontiers in cell and
developmental biology and in this book
what I in this paper what I did now I
can't I don't have time I can spend the
whole night telling you about every
single experiment that challenges the
gene theory and you'd be saying to me
enough enough
okay read the paper and then you will
have all the evidence and don't listen
to what anybody else tells you alright
you can think people can think I don't
want to I can't be right leave the damn
paper and you make your own decision you
know I can't believe so many people get
anything they take secondhand
information so now here's the summary of
that and green cell is normal normal
cells beget normal cells the red cell is
a tumor cell tumor cells get other tumor
cells right
so what's responsible for the neoplastic
tumor phenotype is it the mutations in
the nucleus or is it the defects in the
cytoplasm and the mitochondria because
they're both defective the nuclear
transfer experiments were able to tell
us the answer to that because when we
took the red nucleus and put it into the
green cytoplasm we got normal cells
normal tissues and sometimes a mouse or
almost two complete without cancer
interesting but where we take Israel as
Schaffer did the other one they took the
nucleus of a normal cell and put it into
the cytoplasm of a tumor cell and they
either got dead cells or tumor cells
they did not get normal cells clearly
it's the mitochondrion this these are
the strongest evidence to date to
disprove the gene theory of cancer the
entire cancer field is based on the gene
theory precision medicine right think
about it for a minute
opdivo you're true to its Carty all
that's based on the gene theory if the
gene theory is incorrect what do you
think the probability of those therapies
having any real redeeming value for the
majority of people that have cancer
right you look at the dead look at the
numbers of dead people that tells you
when something works we drop just like
the AIDS when they came out with the the
protease cocktail the death rate went
down that worked right what we have here
is is is something that doesn't work so
if somatic mutations are not how do you
get cancer where's this coming from
Warburg had this identified a long time
ago otto warburg german scientist the
leader of the one of the thinkers and
doers of the 20th century cancer arises
from damage to respiration in the cell
energy through fermentation compensates
for insufficient respiration you so I'm
going to talk more about this and then
you hear about this Warburg effect well
we've just recently identified the
missing link in Warburg's theory and
that is mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorylation that will that will
clarify this for people that actually
can read the literature and understand
what's going on so let me ask you this
if enhanced fermentation is the
signature metabolic malady of all cancer
cells and every cancer cell in the tumor
is different has different gene mutation
and every cell in the tumor is different
from any other cell in the tumor with
respect to its genetic mutations does it
make more sense to focus on the unique
differences of every single cell in the
tumor or the common problem that's
existing in every cell in that tumor you
think we would go for the commonality
right wrong let's focus on the unique
mutations and every one of those cells
and see if we can manage the disease how
is that working not good so now we look
at the energy metabolism in ourselves
okay this is taken again from college
tix because I don't want to go through
the type if you want me to go go I can
go into great depth but I for the prick
of time I don't want to do that so all
we have to do is look at the red
starburst yeah the yellow bursts
okay so we have glycolysis in the
cytoplasm it gives us a little bit of
energy through an ancient pathway called
substrate level phosphorylation the
Krebs cycle an ancient pathway gives us
a little bit of energy in the in the
mitochondria TCA krebs cycle but the
majority of the energy that we get in
our body comes from oxidative
phosphorylation how do we know that
we're breathing anybody here not
breathing any zombies out here in the
audience
no we breathe air and we exhale co2 and
that's because we're respiring and we're
getting us a buttload of energy from
that and that's what's keeping us brains
are test ins everything that we do
muscles they're all using oxidative
phosphorylation now when we look at
cancer cells they if you could just look
at the shift okay very little energy is
coming these cells are not breathing
they're fermenting they're using energy
from these ancient pathways to generate
the energy for growth all right so this
is the shift the tumor cells have
shifted away from oxidative
phosphorylation to fermentation they
shift because they damaged the
respiration is damaged so that's the key
key shift in and what - all cancer cells
are fermenters regardless of their
genetic mutations they're all fermenters
so people ask me how do we get cancer we
can get cancer from any
number of different provocative agents
okay so we know why do they call a
certain chemical a carcinogen because it
causes cancer how do you know that well
if I put the can't the carcinogen on the
ass of a rack a tumor will form okay
that tells me that thing is going to
cause cancer alright so we exposed to
carcinogens radiation people fear
radiation because it's given them that
could give them cancer unless you have
cancer and they a radiant you right then
you have hypoxia so a small interruption
of oxygen in a particular tissue a milk
gland of the brunt of the breast or some
other part of the bite boom you can
damage the rate of the respiration the
cancer cell then muscle ferment I'm
going to go through this inflammation
systemic inflammation rare inherited
mutations Pia has to be genetic we got
bracket 1 we have p53 li-fraumeni all
this other stuff yes they will course
cancer only if they damage the
mitochondria because people walk around
with bracket1 they never can't get
cancer why because the mutation never
damage their respiration therefore these
are secondary causes the primary cause
is damaged and that's what happens to
viruses Racicot gene aids the older you
get the more likely your respiration
will be damaged the more likely you're
going to get cancer just because you're
older you're older right so we call this
the oncogenic paradox how is it and this
is what perplexed the field of cancer
for decades and everybody who read
Emperor of all maladies by Sid Mukherjee
people would surprise winning book on
New York Times bestseller for four years
he wrestles with this go if you read the
book write down page 208 and 303 we
don't understand how it's possible that
we can get cancer from all these
different things through a common
pathophysiological mechanism and that
common pathophysiological mechanism is
that is damage to the respiration that
causes reactive oxygen species and
they're very radical they damaged
proteins lipids and DNA and you get the
mutations coming in the nucleus as a
secondary effect of the Ross coming out
of the damaged mitochondria and it's a
cyclic effect because the more rust the
more mutations the more damaged and look
the green line is us breathing our cells
our breathing our cells our breathing
but as they're damaged from one of these
provocative agents they start to ferment
and
we can't oh you can only get a cancer
cell from a cell that has the capacity
to ferment if the cell can't ferment you
don't get the cancer this is why we have
very little cancer in heart and in
neurons of the brain these cells can't
ferment they die so you have to have
cells that can ferment and those are the
cells that will give you the cancer
epithelial cells a lot of these
different kinds of cells so we already
know about all this stuff now we just
have to simply link all of this stuff
together with this with the hallmarks of
cancer from Hanahan and Weinberg we have
tens of millions of dollars that have
been spent documenting the hallmarks of
cancer so that's not wrong information
it's just that it's misinterpreted so we
have to know how to interpret all this
massive stuff that people have been
oldest cancer research that people have
been doing self sufficiency of growth
signals insensitivity to anti-growth
limitless replicative potential when
that mitochondria goes out the cells
entered their default state this is the
state that all cells on the planet were
in before oxygen came into the
environment don't forget that Earth had
living organisms on this planet when
there was no oxygen in the atmosphere
those cells were all fermenters they and
they would grow dysregulated unbridled
proliferation until the fermentable fuel
in the micro environment was depleted
and then they would croak and we have
the skeletal remains of these things to
prove that so that's a clue if the
self-remembrance for this now another
key kicker in this whole thing is
metastasis I know there's cancer cells
spread all right so when you take a
punch biopsy you put that individual at
risk for spreading the person's own
cancer if the tumor cells are at this
particular stage and you stab them you
can you can spin not always of course
you know sometimes it's a benign thing
you could stick it all day long and
we'll go anywhere but there's other
people that you know can risk this so
how do we get metastatic this is the key
and once it spreads you know this is
when you really have to deal with this
spreading and you know that you they
throw all this poison and stuff at you
so here
here's the epithelial cells it could be
anywhere in the lung the colon the
breast whatever all of a sudden one of
those provocative agents from what I
just went through causes these cells to
proliferate abnormally out of control
they start to grow and they become a
little bit more out of control but
they're not going to spread they're
going to stay right where they are and
the red cells are our immune system all
right our immune system is designed to
heal wounds all right so we have a group
of cells that are misbehaving and
they're sending out certain signals that
attract are the red cells that are
supposed to come in to heal the wound so
they put out growth factors to
facilitate wound healing bad so they're
just mow they're not thinking they're
mindlessly going through their
evolutionary divine programs in a wrong
context and what happens to the cause
though blue cells to become even
dysmorphic but they can't spread but
they're starting to now these red cells
are being a if they don't heal the wound
right away they actually fuse with each
other and with some of the other cells
to facilitate wound healing right okay
what happens is you dilute the normal
mitochondria in the cytoplasm of these
red cells with the abnormal mitochondria
and the blue cells and the next thing
you have is this hybrid kind of a cell
that has all the capabilities of
entering and exit the circulation and
spreading through your body but now it's
dysregulated the worst the most tough
cell in our body is this um this
macrophage of these immune cells that
are now ripping through and they try to
use anti-angiogenic therapy these are
the things to try to block the blood
vessel it doesn't work it doesn't work
because the cells have off to live in
hypoxia not going to work that's proven
to be a failure so yeah if you don't
understand the biology of the disease
that you're working on what do you think
the probability is of making any major
advances right you don't understand most
of the people that do cancer work in
this country I don't give a damn what
their work with their UCSF dana-farber
MD Anderson they're all locked into this
gene theory that's absurd
right this is the biology of the disease
you've got to understand your adversary
you've got to know what they eat you've
got to know what they do and once you
understand that you can kill the
and I'll show you the evidence for that
so if most cells are used fermentation
how do we what do we do well one
strategy is target their fermentation
all right
not not terribly difficult to understand
but apparently it is so calorie
restriction restricted ketogenic diets
these are lower they lower blood sugar
and they raise ketone bodies from fat
which can't be fermented so what happens
is your take away the fuel of the cell
that needs that glucose and you raise an
alternative fuel which is ketone bodies
which they can't use because there might
have Conder damaged you got to have a
good mitochondria to get energy from a
ketone and these cells can't do that so
you can have and that both calorie
restriction now I want to say calorie I
don't like the term because in humans it
means water only fasting and oh I don't
want to hear about that so you have to
come and we have to make a new kind of
approach which we have these restricted
diets and we want to make it fast so I'm
going to show you how to work it with
drugs and things like this that have to
work together all synergistically so we
can we can achieve the mission and the
mission is how do we eliminate cancer in
a person's body without toxicity that's
the key the key is we want people with
cancer to be treated and to emerge from
the treatment healthier than when they
started
no hair loss no vomiting no diarrhea
none of this crap and I'm going to show
you how how we can do this so here's
what ketogenic diets are also very
confused they're they're very low carb
diets they're higher fat and the types
of fats and the types of carbs all play
a role enough time for that it's a low
to moderate protein and we restrict it
we don't go out and say hey just eat as
much fat as you can no no because you
can get insulin insensitivity so people
have to know ketogenic diet is medicine
alright people have to know that it's a
medicine they should be just as
respected as much as any other medicine
so if you don't know how to use it
you're gonna hurt yourself
you could you could or not work I want
to say hurt yourself it we might not
work as well as it should so it's a very
simple thing how do we how do we manage
the growth we reduce the blood sugar and
we raised the ketones and if we can get
the blood sugar down and the ketones
high
we know we're taking away
one of the key fermentable fuels that
this self that this disease needs to
grow and I be working with many pay I'm
not a physician but I work with many
many people who have cancer and I work
with a lot of scientists and they feed
me back and they say oh my sugar is all
off the planet you know I don't know why
I got into a fight with my neighbor my
blood sugar went up and I hear all this
kind of stuff and so my students and I
sat down and we said this isn't working
we can't have people measure
independently their glucose and ketones
because because it seems to be to a
variable capricious and and we have to
have something that's a little bit more
stable so we made the glucose ketone
index to give people a singular number
that can give them a guide as to whether
or not they're in therapeutic ketosis
because if they're in therapeutic
ketosis we know for a fact that the
tumor cells are not going to grow as
fast as they could if given
opportunities to ferment so we're just
simply taking away one of their
fermentable fuels and we we have a
little calculator that we published in
this paper therapeutic FOC is considered
best with index values of 1.0 or below
so most of the cancer patients if they
can get into that zone and there's
meters that you can get to do this we do
it with enzymatic assays but we've done
it with the meters as well so it's a
guide for the patient to say now it
turns out that so many non cancer people
people with no cancer are using the
index just to see how how tough and buff
and all this kind of stuff they can be
which is good I'm not arguing against
that but it was made really to help
cancer patients and one of the first
juices of the ketogenic diet was done by
Linda nibbling and her colleagues at
Case Western Reserve in Cleveland where
they took two little hopeless cases of
children that were brutalized by the
system it's unbelievable it breaks your
heart to see what was done to those kids
but she said well the physicians said
well they got nothing to lose the kids
are terminal hopeless and she rescued
both kids they both increased men
tremendously their quality of life and
they outlived all of the predictions
well beyond and you know I said to
myself man this is unbelievable how come
nobody's doing this they're still not
doing as far as I know why it works so
well in kids it really did I work with
epilepsy children for years I worked on
like like Adria's say we did we learned
a lot about ketogenic diets because I
work with epilepsy for long
Kito genic that some little kids all the
time right but when you go to put it on
cancer oh you can't do that why you know
it works good on kids if you can do it
if you can find somebody who's not
fearing or lose their license so here
here is the so we said oh let's double
check what Linda did and see because
Linda was saying Linda nibbling was
saying if you got to load the blood
sugar and get the ketones up you should
be able to reduce the tumor so we did
that we that we've developed our own
ugly glioblastoma type of kind of tumors
in the mice this is one of them CT 2a
and you know this is standard diet which
is the mouse Chow unrestricted the mouse
sits in his cage he Chows down on this
high carbohydrate diet and then we gave
the same diet restricted by 40% to
another Mouse this is one of a group we
did many of these guys and and look at
that this is a tumor in his brain it
grows like crazy in 14 days this guy is
is history right they died this guy is
looking really good from the same diet
just restricted and and I said this is
before I knew what or Warburg was all
about right I didn't know so I said what
the hell is going on here this is
unbelievable
65 to an 85 percent reduction in the
size of this tumor just by taking away
some of the food that the mouse eats
this turned out to be the same as a
water only therapeutic faster for humans
by the way it's not - let me go home and
eat 40% less no no no you've got to you
got to do it because we at the basal
metabolic rate is different than mice
and men
so we we documented each of these
squares is a is a mouse under a
different dietary condition so the
squares so this glucose we did linear
regression it's a statistical analysis
using glucose as the independent
variable and either ketones or tumor
weight as that as the dependent
variables and you can see the squares as
blood sugar goes down the levels of
ketones in the blood go up this is an
evolutionarily conserved adaptation to
the restriction of food happens in
humans even much better in humans than
it does in the mice as blood sugar goes
down the size of the tumor goes down the
higher the sugar the faster the tumor
grows the lower the sugar the slower the
tumor grows right this
understand that if you want your tumor
to grow fast take in glucose if you want
your tumor to grow slow restrict Lucas
why when we go to the oncology clinics
we see the kids eating big cakes guys
drinking Enfamil right what the hell's
going on here this that these data are
published it's not just the mouse we
have brain cancer breast cancer colon
cancer all these cancers have been shown
to do the same thing why the hell are we
given to cancer patients so much sugar
it doesn't make any sense of some sort
of disconnect they don't read the
literature or they don't understand it I
don't know how I can make it any more
clear what do you want me to do am i
speaking Greek and then people say how
does it work
oh we published though we can't believe
it unless you have a mechanism
we we describe the mechanisms over and
over again so did so many other people
describe oh well I don't know about that
what don't you know about it and
somebody comes to me they got a dog
right a dog has a big tumor on his face
look at it it's a mast cell tumor here's
the nostrils that's right under his
nostril and this of course there was a
YouTube video I know they took it from
one of my lectures and it ran 5.3
million views on this thing even I'm
shocked about it so she says oh my dog
has a big tumor the vet wanted to take
the tumor off with radiation and chemo
sound familiar right dog will live seven
months have diarrhea and all kinds of
things one week they're very healthy
shot I want to do that she loves this
dog it's like like her son so she says
what shall I do and she went on the
youtubes just read our read our papers
like she's not a scientist she's just a
person who owns a dog that she loves
this dog she gave him raw meat
restricted the calories by 40% and in a
couple of months this angry thing turns
into a spot and here it's and now it's
gone and the dog is fine this was about
2015 that I just said the other day I
said how's Minka doing the name of the
dog oh he's doing fine no surgery no
radiation so um a lot cheaper
yeah say she saved 10,000 bucks think
about that right so now I want to talk
about humans okay that we're gonna do
GBM glioblastoma multiforme this is a
real nasty because if our Senator John
McCain is now suffering with this
has a lot of different kinds of cells
it's very aggressive Ted Kennedy passed
away from this most people pass away
from this I'll show you the evidence for
that it's a real tough nut it can it can
be tough if if you don't know what
you're doing if you know what you're
doing we think we can have major and I'm
going to show you evidence to support
that now here's the cross-section
through a brain of some poor soul who
died from this tumor and you can see all
this discoloration nastiness cystic so
and the tumors if you notice this is the
midline of the brain and you can see
that the it should be nice and straight
and you can see it bow it out right over
here it's called midline shift so what
happens is these poor people the tumor
grows inside their brain causes
intracranial pressure and they
eventually go unconscious and they die
okay so and then you would say we cut it
out we irradiated we did it the tumor
cells they move through the brain so
even though it looks normal out here
it's laced with all kinds of tumor cells
that you can't see this is from the
surgical the radiation now this this see
these dark cells these spaces these are
the blood vessels and these tumor cells
are using those blood vessels those
railroad systems just spread through
your brain so this is why surgery and
radiation don't work and you can see the
tumor cells around I'll show you so you
got to realize again you got to
understand the biology of what you're
dealing with here
so people know what I just said you know
they use anti-angiogenic therapies which
doesn't work right so here's an electron
micrograph of elect of a mic of a
mitochondria a normal mitochondria and
your hope you can't see you gotta lose
the electron microscope you can't use
regular light microscopy so these
stripes that you see these nice stripes
they contain the proteins and the lipids
that allow us to breathe air to get
energy from oxidative phosphorylation
called cristae and here's the
mitochondria from a glioblastoma
multiforme II by my colleague Arizmendi
Murillo from Venezuela is that where are
the leaders in PM of brain cancer and
you can see this big wide open space
that they don't have Chris day so this
organelle is not going to be able to
generate energy through oxidative
phosphorylation structure dictates
function so you'll hear a lot of
scientists say there's nothing wrong
with the mitochondria and cancer are you
blind
right oh no III don't I don't I I don't
think that's right well what the hell's
wrong with it look I mean everybody can
see that and we have dozens and dozens
of articles showing this
oh no they they can breathe yeah I have
to deal with this right so anyway we
know we have never found a tumor with
the with an the correct numbers
structure and function of mitochondria
that indicates something if they don't
have the mitochondria structure and
function and numbers exactly right
where are they going to get their energy
from well they're gonna have to ferment
right do we know glial blastoma ferment
like crazy most cancers are fermenting
like crazy why are they fermenting like
crazy because their mitochondria
defective and many in so many different
ways so what do they ferment how do they
stay alive these tumor cells well they
have only two major fuels that will keep
the Beast alive and one of them is
glucose like I just showed you and the
other is this amino acid called
glutamine which is the most abundant
amino acid in the body cancer cells
can't live without glutamine you know
you can't grow cancer you can't grow
cells in culture without glutamine so
glutamine comes in glucose comes in
these two fuels work off each other and
they set up a protective shield so you
so when you radiate them the shield
prevents the radiation from killing them
because it they're they're using so much
glucose and glutamine so this is why you
cell radio resistant we have to figure
out radio resistance if they're reading
resistance because they've taken in
glucose and glutamine and they're
getting all their energy the majority of
it from substrate level phosphorylation
and the carbons from glutamine and
glucose can do everything that that cell
needs to grow out of control all right
oh does that tell us something Wow
glucose and glutamine are driving the
Beast okay if you take what happens when
you take glucose and glutamine away I'll
show you but before I do that let's look
at what we do to these poor souls that
go in for a brain cancer right to
publish this in Lancet Oncology big
Journal actually in the field so I was
so pissed off I said listen we got to
tell people what's going on in this
brain cancer field I published and I
thought you know I they were going to
shoot me dead dead silence nobody talks
about this so let's let's look at what
happens person he might have like a
seizure or hey what's wrong with your
arm I don't know man it's just I feel a
little funny go in what's wrong I don't
know
dying man and something gets happy
starts dragon whoa ice oh maybe
something in your brain whoo we see a
big tumor in your brain you've got oh my
god
it looks like glioblastoma let's take a
punch biopsy even not even if not we can
look and say that's a GBM because I have
a lot of neurosurgeon friends they tell
me we got to get that when you get
diagnosed with a glioblastoma multiforme
II you are in shock I don't care who you
are soon as you open what the hell is
this you kidding me like the Angel of
Death
the black spot so well what do we get we
got to take it out as quickly as
possible okay
everybody is in shock I don't care who
oh are you sure we have to no we got to
get it out immediately so what did I
just tell you when we when we surgically
resect we create a wound all right so
that wound is already now going to
contribute to some of the spread but we
now sometimes I'm not saying you don't
take it out because I have a lot of we
talked about this if it's gonna herniate
your brain and kill you you got to get
it out no question but if you have some
watchful waiting time then you take that
watchful waiting time and you apply
metabolic therapy but Mobe nobody does
that so what we do as soon as that poor
soul recovers from the debulking surgery
to get rid of the tumor which is only
what the part that's neurosurgeon can
see we then bring the radiation on this
poor guy right so we irradiated I and we
break apart that tightly regulated
glucose glutamine cycle in the brain
freeing up a large amount of glutamine
what did I say about cancer cells and
glutamine they use glutamine right so
the radiation is going to free up
because it creates in the chronic areas
in the brain and the necrotic areas are
going to free up the glutamine that I
said is going to drive the Beast all
right so we freeing up the glutamine by
the very procedure that we're using to
treat the patient now because you were
radiate somebody's head the brain swells
from the edema and the swelling from the
heat from the radiation and all this
other stuff how do we reduce the
swelling we give them high-dose steroids
so we give dexamethasone which causes
hyperglycemia right increases glucose
increases glutamine increases glucose
and make matters worse now that we know
many of these tumor cells are infected
with human cytomegalovirus which is
quite kind of interesting and the
viruses get into
the tumor cells and they act like a
supercharger so they can use glutamine
and glucose even faster than what they
would normally do it's like what is
going on here so what this therapy does
it guarantees the recurrence and death
of that recurrence of the tumor and the
death of the patient but the majority of
people now am i blowing this out my butt
or is there evidence to support what I
just said
why don't we just look at the statistics
on who survives this GBM okay the
redline of those people the 278 in this
study look at what's that number there
0-0 nobody survived it's not surprising
it's not surprising what you did to that
person put them in the zero category now
the biggest advance that we had in brain
cancer in the last 50 years was
temozolomide a toxic alkylating agent
and they said look at this we can
increase people's progression-free
survival and increase by 6 out of 200
slightly increase overall survival by
giving them a toxic alkylating agent
called temozolomide i said and then we
the guys from UCSF over here published
the paper in 2014 saying temozolomide
increases driver mutations what the hell
does that mean
a driver mutation is supposed to make
the tumor grow faster but if I give them
the same drug that increases driver
mutations I actually encrypted slow it
down something's something's amiss so
what I said was what does temas all mi
do well if you look at people who take
temozolomide nausea vomiting diarrhea
and fatigue are some of the consequences
from temozolomide all indirect forms of
calorie restriction so what is the
probability that this little blip is due
to calorie restriction and not the toxic
drug that you're given to the patient
either way it's not good and I can tell
you if data from Turkey Egypt Germany
England Japan China we get the same
pattern all right now let's put a face
on this is remember this girl here
Brittany Maynard she was from Northern
California here here she is right after
she get married this is she was
diagnosed with a low-grade stage one or
two
tumor back in 2014 and within a month
after they took the tumor oh you got a
low-grade she has a glioblastoma huh
inflammatory onco taxes what'd I tell
you about that you going doesn't happen
all the time but it can happen and then
here look at her it now her she doesn't
look anything here like she does here
this is moonface from high-dose steroids
most people who have these glioblastoma
they get powned with all this steroid
and they get moonface from all the
steroids and that steroid is making that
tumor grow faster now she says I'm out
of here she goes the northern state
Oregon where they have a Death with
Dignity and she and her family decide to
terminate her life
November 1st 2014 and that was January
from when she was diagnosed
less than a year she's dead now what
kind of a statement does that make on
your print on a profession where you're
supposed to be helping people and
they're taken that they're taken that
they're bailing out not good and so I'm
looking now we have we have another case
this guy's Pablo Kelly from England
Pablo emailed me and the same time frame
is Britney same year August 2014 he was
diagnosed with a glioblastoma and he
said I don't want any of that stuff I
don't want surgery
I don't want radiation and I don't want
chemicals so I said okay I gave him this
stuff and he had a youtube showing
everybody all the keto stuff that he was
eating and this thing and that thing and
it was the doctor said you're gonna be
dead in three to six months Pablo you're
crazy Pablo you know what are you doing
this diet doesn't work this metabolic
stuff is Pablo said I I'm gonna
do it because I I seen the data so I you
know all of a sudden so I did for hurt I
didn't know so a year goes by a year and
a half go by and I said oh Jesus I never
and then all of a sudden the easement
emails me and I said hey Pablo I thought
I didn't say a Pablo I thought you would
be dead
nice to hear from you how you doing he
said I'm doing fine so I said wow that's
remarkable
he says I think I'm going to have my
tumor taken out now because what they
told me it was inoperable originally and
now because this diet and all the stuff
I'm doing it they think it seemed to
think they can get it out all of it so I
said well give it a shot now it's sunken
down you know so he took it out just
this last year he's going to be out this
summer for years he's doing fine he got
married it's gonna have his wife is
gonna have a baby any day now and he has
a very good quality of life I'm not
going to say it's perfect because he
does have some seizures but he's alive
and the tumor is managed and he has
hopeful and he's looking forward to the
future which is very interesting so what
we did is you know we developed some of
the best animal models of glioblastoma
that there are and we began to test
various ways by which we can start
managing this cancer and a more friend
biologically friendly way with Pablo and
some other patients giving us the
motivation to say hey we can beat this
if we know what we're doing so if we
have a good tool which is this model
system where they develop spontaneous
glioblastoma in the brain of this strain
of mouse we engineered the tumor cells
so we can follow them using light
bioluminescence imaging and when we
treat them we can be able to determine
whether or not our therapies are going
to be successful and if they're going to
be successful we can then tell our
clinician friends who see patients and
tell them this is what we think you
should do and if they do it to the
patient and the patient lives a lot
longer than they're supposed to hey
that's what we're that's what our job is
so what we did is we began to look at
these this glioblastoma in the mouse and
ask you know how do we stop it so here's
the tumor in the mouse's brain and you
can see it invading right through the
brain here's tumor cells whale in
advanced eating a high carbohydrate diet
so they hike on you I said you want to
get your tumor to grow fast eat a lot of
sugar so that's now we said let's take
away all the sugar and see if we can
kill the tumor and here's the tumor
under calorie restriction restricted
ketogenic diets and everything and and
there is you can see that invasion is
markedly reduced but the
to her is still there so I said to my
students they said what the hell man we
threw the kitchen sink at that thing we
try to take all the glucose away and the
damn thing is still growing so I said
why is it growing as I said what's the
other fuel it's glutamine so I said wow
why don't we try to target glutamine so
we said well this drug has been known
for decades this drug gone it blocks the
first step in getting glutamine into the
cell
so the glutamine can't get into the cell
because we stopped the enzyme that
brings glutamine in and and metabolizes
it to glutamate so we use this drug 6
days o ox o Elnora leucine we call it
dawn because it's hard to pronounce this
this is the structure and we know what
it can do it can stop glutamine so we
decided to set up an experiment which
were it's not published yet but we have
it almost ready so here's our skit
here's what we do and this is what we I
set up these scales for the mice and we
set up these scales for humans as well
because we got to know what's going on
except except we're putting the tumors
into the mouse's brain the human already
has the tumor in their brain that's the
difference so this mouse then three days
later it's a raging GBM and then we put
him on a third of fast just for 18 hours
and then we give him back the high carb
diet or the ketogenic diet restricted so
and now they're going back to the diets
and then we pulse ping with glueck
glutamine gone Bing Bing every couple of
days being paying a pulse they have the
diet and now of course we stop the
experiments at 15 days because the guys
eating the high carb diet are croakin
they're getting sick we have to stop the
experiment and then we compare the two
groups the guys that get the diet and
the dawn versus the guys that got the
high carb diet and no dawn and no diet
and then we can look at this the brain
now this blue stuff is the light of the
tumor so you see a lot of bright light
here and that tells you that these tumor
cells are actively growing okay so this
is a high carbohydrate diet unrestricted
look at the light blue this bright red
and yellow this means that you get a lot
of living tumor cells in there this is
the diet by itself and you say well the
diet didn't do much it was going to show
you it stops invasion but you're right
the diet alone it works the diet this
diet works so much better in humans
nice people say you cured these mind you
don't cure these mice if they have the
same thing that the human has it's just
as hard so now we do the diet with the
dawn and there's no light and we did
this over and over again we can't find
living tumor cells any number of living
tumor cells Wow
so I said we got to look at the tissue
to make sure we're not making any kind
of a mistake so here's that here's the
way the histology and don't forget this
is the way you diagnose any kind of a
cancer you got to look under the
microscope and look at the tumor cells
and you see mitotic figures and you look
at all this stuff
oh you have cancer all right so we know
these guys so here's this line this is
the tumor and this is the normal brain
and these tumor cells are ripping
invading right into that white area and
the tumor cells are all densely packed
growing like crazy on the high glucose
diet look at the ketogenic diet the line
is so much more sharp the tumor cells
are not invading as fast and there's
more spacing so the diet by itself is
definitely doing something but it's not
killing all the tumor cells when you put
the diet with the drug the glue to
glucose inhibitor with the diet that the
glutamine inhibitor with the drug we
slaughter the tumor cells right this
proves why we have no light we these are
all dead cells these are all dead all
right
the mice live a lot longer they look
healthier so we said we got to put this
together in a in it's something that
humans can use so we developed the press
pulse therapeutic strategy and this is
the outline for that and George Yeo is
an oncologist Jo maroon is the team
surgeon for the Pittsburgh Steelers a
neurosurgeon and Dominick D'Agostino
another colleague of mine from
University of South Florida we put this
paper together and this is an outline of
press pulse the diet is a press we
stress the tumor cells so they can't
grow very fast so we have Teeter genic
diets and ketone supplementation maybe
MCT oil to some ketones we keep the
pressure on the cells the patient comes
in he's sick he's got metastatic cancer
brain cancer colon cancer they're all
the same all cancers are exactly the
same when it comes to their metabolism
so whatever cancer they have we put them
on the metabolic therapy they're all
stressed out
cancer creates stress when you have
cancer you have anxiety you have
impending that your doom may be this I
have something that's especially when it
starts to spread you get all freaked out
so what we do is we use stress
management we have exercise we have yoga
therapy massage therapy music therapy
all kinds of therapies that reduce the
patient's stress because when the
patient is stressed cortisol is up
glucose is up not good you got to bring
the glucose down get rid of the stress
put them on these metabolic therapies
and then we pulse with drugs that
further target glucose like insulin and
to deoxy glucose and then we use
glutamine inhibitors like like
glutathione correction chloroquine and
and EGCG I'll talk about that and then
we put them in hyperbaric oxygen
chambers instead of radiation we put
them in hyperbaric hyperbaric oxygen
will kill tumor cells as long as you can
get rid of the glucose in glutamine why
you radiate somebody when you can do
this right so the patient then starts to
feel better now a lot of these people
who come in they're all screwed up
anyway they got diabetes they got all
kinds of metabolic imbalances well that
seems to go away along with their cancer
so then they start feeling better they
get fewer and then we get resolution I
don't know if we cured the disease I
don't want to say we cure people I don't
know if we cure people well I know is
the hell have a lot healthier than they
were when they started how long they
live I don't know because we just
started this stuff how many know how
many long-term survivors you know
they're all I know is the ones that many
of the ones we treat are living what am
I supposed to say and some died okay
because it requires compliance and
sometimes these people are not compliant
and that's another thing I can't do
anything about that so here's our most
recent paper that we just published a
couple of months ago out of Egypt
because we can't do this stuff in the
United States you know we can't do it in
England we can't do this
so this else akka came to me and he says
I'm using your metabolic therapy to
treat a glioblastoma patients I said wow
so these guys say it's hard to write I
do that for a living I've written you
know dozens and hundreds of scientific
papers for journals so and I know how to
organize data I know how to write the
data and I know how to present the
information the clinicians get the data
we can we can formulate it put it in the
right order and then we can publish it
so this is a guy
thirty-eight-year-old gentleman he was a
farmer corn farmer in Egypt he came in
with his whole left side dragging he
couldn't move his arm he was he was in
bad shape he was also at a balance and
vitamin D he was trike had elevated
triglycerides
he was metabolically a mess all right so
we put him on the key I'll show you what
we did if I have it on the next slide
well we took him water only therapeutic
fasting water only therapeutic fasting
for three days then he went into a 900
kilocalorie a day for three weeks no we
didn't do any bulk debulking then after
three weeks of this they took an awake
craniotomy and the we took the tumor out
of this guy and as soon as we took the
tumor out we brought him back on the
metabolic therapy and we used
chloroquine EGCG hyperbaric oxygen after
three months he went in for the
radiation and I said why you putting
them in the radiant well we have to do
that because everybody has to do that
you're gonna lose your license to do
that don't do that
so I said anyway we put him on there he
he said that he was prepared now his
body was prepared so so look at we
brought as a glucose ketone index down
really good during this whole these
treatments now here's his tumor in the
brain by MRI analysis you see that white
spot that's his tumor that was
preoperative before there was any
surgery take it so you can see and you
can see the red line here this red line
is shifted massively so I said the tumor
grows in the brain and causes midline
shift the and that's why he's paralyzed
he's getting this part of his brain
crushed so as we began the metabolic
therapy nine took and we did all this
metabolic you can see that the the shift
coming out it's a combination between
the debulking and the metabolic therapy
and all the other treatments so the guy
after 24 months and he's still going he
went back working in the cut and the
cornfield he was doing really well no
steroids we gave the guy no steroids so
it goes to show you that we can achieve
a far better oh that's only one patient
listen it's not eat we got to write more
and more of these patients it just takes
time and Mike and then we did it in
Turkey for breast cancer and this was we
have a big clinic in Turkey now that are
doing this and this is a woman who came
in she was also about thirty thirty
something I can't remember
a triple negative breast cancer which is
not good and it's spread to her liver
and part of her muscles and and what
happens is that we now have management
look at this she's doing really well
okay so what we have we have the choice
here's Britney standard of care
Pablo ketogenic metabolic therapy so how
many how many more Pablo's can we get
cancer is a type of mitochondrial
metabolic disease it's not a genetic
disease this is the singular greatest
misunderstanding and it's the singular
greatest tragedy in the history of
medicine this misunderstanding about
what cancer is it's a it's a metabolic
disease it lives on fermentation fuels
if you restrict the two fuels you can
manage any kind of a cancer because they
all depend on either glucose glutamine
or both and the press pulse metabolic
therapy is non-toxic cost-effective and
in my mind it'll eventually make all
other cancer therapies obsolete alright
it's just a matter of time because
people want to live and it want to be
poisoned and irradiated now here's your
all my colleagues from all the different
countries that are working with us now
China just came back they want to
dovetail this with the Chinese
traditional medicine and of course where
do you get money to do this I got to
thank Travis Kristofferson author of
tripping over the truth he has a private
foundation like you're a foundation
he collects funds to support my research
joe mercola George you Foundation
CrossFit Greg Glassman of CrossFit is a
big fan of what we do he's been
supportive dr. Joel maroon from the
University of Pittsburgh these are
individuals giving us money from their
pocket Ellen Davis from her book my own
University and I always say in the past
the NIH when we weren't really
challenging the system they were very
happy to support us thank you for your
attention
all right thank you
so we have a few minutes for questions
so we would like to ask a question here
prostate cancer in men it's supposed to
be slow would this help that we could
use speculate it would help slow growth
prostate cancer yeah I just got an email
from Martin Friedel from Australia last
week he was a Gleason 9 prostate cancer
which is spread metastasized
he's under now this is he's out five
years and he has no evidence of the
cancer it has worked on a number of
people he was very religious about what
he did in his he was very compliant with
his with his metabolic therapy he just
says that hey I'm alive
I can't I don't know but it's certainly
he's doing well and I have that from
several other prostate cancer people as
well it seems like you could accelerate
the adoption of pres pulse therapy by
getting some high-profile leadership
examples you know if Senator McCain is
aware of your your therapy I don't know
I don't reach out to people and say hey
listen you know I can save you I don't
do that they they can't they usually
come to me and ask me if I can help them
Senator McCain went to the Mayo Clinic
for his therapy and the Mayo Clinic
practices standard of care so you saw
the data from the standard of care
that's all I can say do you have
experience in blood based carcinomas yes
so like lymphoma leukemias MDS myelomas
yes multiple myeloma Bomar Harun is a
rare chapter in my book in my chapter 20
where I got information from various
people ballmart contacted me bet well
way back before I wrote my book and he's
I thought he was dead and he contacted
me
last last year he says I'm still alive
eight years out and he says I'm still
going I said great Bomar so III that's
all I know he's still alive the bottom
line is people are still alive that's
what you want right and I said how do
you feel he said I feel pretty good now
he's doing metabolic therapy with some
new drug too so it's not just metabolic
therapy do you have a ballpark figure of
what percentage of people respond to
your therapy the people who remain
compliant and can get all of the things
because the Turks they have a clinic and
they keep their monitor the patients and
they have a very good track record of
these and then you do only stage four
cancers they don't do any of these and
they're keeping this woman here with
Stage four when you have when you have
metastasis of breast that's stage four
it's and she's doing well and they have
pancreatic cancer ovarian cancer lung a
lot of lung cancer patients and they get
the same kind of response not everybody
some people are so beat up by the system
you can't they can't recover their
bodies are so demolished from all the
radiation and chemo they can't rally
their normal cells and unfortunately you
can't save so if we ever started this
upfront before we irradiated or poison
anybody I think they're I think the
results would be unbelievable that's my
view okay over here so have your
findings being translated being
translated already into nutritional
advice for people who are not sick yeah
so prevention you mean prevention how do
we prevent cancer well you don't even
get cancer if your mitochondria become
damaged so how do you protect your
mitochondria from damage right you have
to go best way to get into therapeutic
ketosis periodically which is hard stop
eating for several days it's not easy or
you can take keto some maybe you can
take some MCT oil some of this measure
your glucose ketone index you'll be fine
because because you can't get cancer if
your mitochondria LP it's only when your
mitochondria become
in some tissue and should should be able
to prevent eighty to ninety percent and
that's what Warburg said if you can keep
your mitochondria healthy you should be
able to prevent eighty to ninety percent
of cancers so I'm not an expert but I
have a question so so obese people tend
to get more cancer and some people think
that it's because there's more fat cells
and if you got more cells you have more
chance of mutation there's just more of
them to go wrong and there you get your
mutation so might might there still be a
connection like might it be a
combination where maybe the metabolism
and the too much glucose is causing the
mutation and then it's the mutations
that are causing the cancer that's
growing wild well let me address the
obesity question first not all obese
people have high c-reactive protein in
their blood so whenever I go to get
blood work the first thing I do I do
c-reactive protein because that's an
indicator of systemic inflammation right
so many obese people have systemic
inflammation inflammation damages
mitochondria in certain cells and
tissues it's the damage to the
mitochondria that causes the mutations
it's not the mutations that cause the
cancer it's the damage to the
mitochondria that causes the mutations
you can get damage to the mitochondria
from systemic inflammation and a marker
for systemic inflammation is C reactive
protein so that's why we have some
massively obese people who never get
cancer and you say what the hell you
look at their blood they have very
little C reactive protein some people
don't get inflammation from just simply
being obese but obesity can increase
systemic inflammation there by putting
some obese people at risk for cancer
it's not the mutations the nuclear
transfer experiments showed that okay so
it's not when you when you get the
inflammation though doesn't that causing
mutations and isn't
mutations of the cell oh you have to go
through the mitochondria first true but
then but there's still a connection with
we have any cells ferment okay there is
one in there's one interesting point
about this in order for the cells to
ferment they have to turn on oncogenes
and the oncogenes are transcription
factors that allow the cells to ferment
but if you don't damage the mitochondria
the oncogenes don't come off because if
I put new mitochondria the oncogenes
turn off so the oncogenes are in
response to the damage to the
respiration and the mutations are just
downstream epiphenomenon they're not
relevant okay so you want to protect you
don't want to get cancer reduce systemic
inflammation how do you reduce that some
people well I'm going to have to you
know go on keto or I'm gonna have to
lose weight but this certain ways you
have to lose weight there's certain way
you always have to monitor c-reactive
protein and if you can keep your gki in
the in the therapeutic zone you will
reduce inflammation because we've shown
that we've shown all of those things we
looked at IG f1 is some like growth
factor one which is a trigger for
growing through the through through the
pi3 akt signaling pathway that signaling
pathway Goes Down when you reduce blood
sugars and inflammation goes down it's a
systemic approach to the whole
management there is a new buzzword in
the field called
immune on ecology can you please comment
on it and what is the relationship with
mitochondrial concept well there's no
relationship with mitochondria okay
it's a it's based on the gene theory
okay so you have katroo de up Devo these
are called checkpoint inhibitors they're
trying to block they're using immune
cells to block abnormal behavior of this
and you're trying to target a specific
population of tumor cells by by using a
checkpoint inhibitor because that the
tumor cell and it's so so-called makes
that immune cell impotent so therefore
you use this antibody which has the
potential to work a lot of times you get
adverse effects the newest one is Carty
immunotherapy this is now listen to this
so using it for blood cancers you ever
hear this cart
immunotherapy so what you have to do is
you have to take the t-cells out of the
individual that's sick which is not you
filter them out filter them out and then
you send them from about somewhere out
here in California where they
genetically engineered the patient's
t-cells to recognize a particular
mutational defect on their own and then
they ship them back to Dana Farber and
then they and then they have to take the
patients and you have to put them very
high dose chemo to blow out his own
t-cells and then you put the genetically
engineered T cells back into the patient
and these T cells now are supposed to go
out and kill the tumor cell and
sometimes they do and sometimes they
kill you and I say why do that because
even do is take away glucose and
glutamine now I call that a Rube
Goldberg do you know what a Rube
Goldberg is it's a very complicated way
of doing something very simple Carty
immunotherapy is the granddaddy of Rubbo
Goldberg experiments and besides you got
to pay four hundred and fifty thousand
dollars to have somebody do that for you
and that's the new thing we have call
financial toxicity and we wrote a paper
on it people have marriages are breaking
up they're going they're going bankrupt
they're dying from the cost of these
treatments that don't necessarily work
but for a very small number of people
and it's incredible what they're doing
out there okay unfortunately we have to
move on with the program please thank
dr. C fee one more time if you have
questions
he will be around for a few more minutes
you can come up and speak with him